# 20-04-2026, CSS/JS Review

I was planning to start learning React after my last entry, but instead decided to refactor my most recent project into modules to compartmentalize my js code. I felt that I needed the practice. It was more difficult than I expected, so I went on to review what I've learned so far and fill in a few gaps. I ended up learning a lot of things in more depth with The Odin Project's help. Dave Gray did an amazing job of teaching in his videos, made it possible for me to build a simple webapp, probably even not-so-simple ones, but the variety of resources and assigned readings used in TOP really expanded on things. There was a lot of reading on MDN, css-tricks, and javascript.info.

A list of topics in no particular order that were studied more in-depth:
- delaying function invocation
- "this" and "new" in javascript
- object prototypal inheritance
- call, apply, binding
- assigning functions to variables/references
- closure, factory functions, IIFEs, modules
- accessor properties
- destructuring values from objects

and I also picked up a lot of things I didn't when I was first learning web dev:
- css normalizing vs resetting
- :root selector for globals
- :target selector and fragment links
- SVGs, styling borders into triangles
- button, search, color, datalist, output 
- var() fallback with pseudo-private custom properties
- fonts and performance, WOFF2, preload, as, crossorigin
- guidelines like 1.5 line height and 45-75 or 66ch line length

It feels like I've spent too much time overlearning, but it all fells like information I should know before moving on. It may just be that I'm too eager to start working on databases. I want to work on backend and learn python already! On top of that, I ended up getting sick and wasn't able to study as hard as I would've liked. At least it seems that the worst has passed!