# 01-04-2026, Practicing JS

Over the past week, I've made two projects to practice javascript: the first was a to-do-list and the second was a random number generator.

The to-do-list was surprisingly difficult. I started with a general idea of the app I wanted to make and implemented things as I went along. After making some progress, I realized things needed to be abstracted into classes and ended up refactoring everything. That process took nearly as long as what I had done thus far, and probably longer than if I had restarted from scratch. When I completed the basic functionality of adding and removing items, I realized reordering was also an important feature and one I couldn't implement easily with how I had written things. I wrapped up the project there, as it would have taken far too long to build out. It was only meant to be a short exercise, and I felt that I had learned enough valuable lessons to do better on the next.

The random number generator went much better. It was a request from my partner who wanted an app similar to the one she had many years ago, but had long since been taken down. She provided basic specifications, and I started only after a developing a clear idea of how the app should look, what other features it should have, and how to modularize the code to do specific tasks. It felt a lot more like object oriented programming or atomic commits where every piece was resposible for doing its own thing. Unfortunately, at the very end, I found that I was importing a few functions from the module responsible for saving/loading data when it would have been better to import it all as a class for managing data. It made progress difficult in terms of remembering where functions were implemented, and that could have been avoided if I had taken just one more step with encapsulation. Overall, although there are still things I'd like to improve on, I'm much more satisfied with the results of this second project.

I feel like I've spent too long on here, but still need to practice asychronous javascript before moving on.